A case now we know about data types and primary and foreign keys that start creating our coffee store
database.
So I opened up my school work bench and go to the view's connection and then first thing we want to
do is we want to show database's
and you can see we just have four databases at my school so workbenches installed with.
So we need to create our database.
So we need to create a database and then we're going to cool it coffee on the school stool and then
run up and then run show databases again and we see we have our coffee store database we can then type
use coffee store
case so know it in our coffee store.
We need to create all three tables so we can create products customer and Orders table.
So to create a table in my house you know we need to tie creates table followed by the table name.
So let's first create the products table and then we need to open a pair of brackets and we're going
to type more Escudo code within the brackets.
And we always end with a semi-colon.
So let's open the brackets and in here we're going to define our column names and data types.
So the first column name is going to be an ID column and this is going to be the primary key.
So we're going to caller ID and it's going to be a number.
So it's going to be one two three four five etc. with each new entry in the table.
So we want to use the data type.
And then because it's the primary key and we want it to be unique we're going to type auto increment.
And this means that when we insert data into our table it's going to auto increment this ID column so
is the first row will be id one second will be ID to free for 5 five.
And then because this is the primary key column we need to type primary key.
So that's how we define primary keys in the table we just type primary key after the data type and then
end with a comma.
So the second column that we want to have in our products table is the name column.
So this will contain the name of the product sold in our coffee store.
And this is going to be a data type Pocho and we need to define the maximum length.
So let's say 30.
So this will take any string up to 30 characters long and then the final column we want in our products
table is a price.
So this is the price codes for each product.
And this is going to be a Decimal data type and because we're just selling coffee.
The maximum price of a product is not going to be more than 9 9 9.
So we can just type 3 2.
So this will take five used like four point five zero but it won't take values like fifteen point twenty
five.
So that's what we need for our price caught him and then that's it.
That saw table created.
So let's run this statement now and you can see it created the table.
So now let's show the tables
and you can see tables in coffee store.
We have our products table here.
So that's how we create tables in my school we type create table followed by the table name and then
we define all columns and data types and primary keys.
So now we've created our products table.
I want you to create the customers table
so the customers table should have an ID column which will be the primary key as well.
And then will have a first name last name and phone number columns.
So think about which data type each column should have and created that table.
And I'll be along with this solution in a couple of seconds.
OK so hopefully you're able to create the customers table.
And it should have looked like this.
So we should have our ID field as that water increments and is the primary key.
We have a first and last name called home which are both for Charles within the gender column which
is an income which can take male or female so Amorth.
And then finally we have a phone number column which reviews the data type for chawl rather than in
it because although it's made up of numbers it's not really a number in the usual sense.
So we use a cha wave length 11.
So let's run that.
And now we have four tables the customer on the product table.
So finally we need to create orders table orders table.
It's just going to have an ID column and then it's going to have two foreign keys.
So it's going to have a product ID column and a customer id call him and then he's going to have an
order day.
So let's create table orders open our brackets like normal.
So the first column is going to be our ID column is going to be in and it's going to auto increment
and it's going to be our primary key.
So just like for the other tables
and then finished with the comma and then the next column is going to be a product ID column.
So product underscore ID is going to be an event and it's also going to be a foreign key.
So we look at how we can set foreign keys in a minute.
The next column is going to be customer id call them.
And that's also going to be an int and it's also going to be a foreign key.
And then the final column is just going to be in order time for them.
So it's going to hold the time that the order was placed.
And this is going to be a date time data type in case of all our columns for our orders table.
Now we just need to look at how we can set our two foreign keys.
So on the next line we need to type foreign key and then we need to type in a pair of brackets.
We need to type the column name which is going to be a foreign key.
So the first one is going to be our productivity column.
So we need to type products by day.
And then we need to type references.
So this product ID column is going to be referencing another column in another table.
So we need to type the table name.
So it's going to be referencing the products table and then open a pair of brackets within the brackets.
We need to type the column in the products table that this part of the column is going to be referencing.
So it's going to be the ID column in the products table.
So that's how we set foreign keys.
And then let's set the second one so we need to type foreign key again open a pair of brackets.
And this time we need to type customer ID.
So we're going to be the customer I.D. and the orders table and that's going to be referencing the customers
table and the ID column.
So that's how we set phone case.
And now we can run this statement.
We can show the table again and we now have our free tables in our coffee store database.
So we've learned how to create tables in a database and we've finished creating our coffee store database.
So let's move on to the next video.